试题 1(2017 年上半年试题 71-75)
The purpose of systems analysis phase is to build a logical model of the
new system. The first step is（ ）, where you investigate business
processes and document what the new system must do to satisfy users.
This step continues the investigation that began during the（ ）. You
use the fact-finding results to build business models, data and process
models, and object models. The deliverable for the systems analysis
phase is the（ ）, which describes management and user requirements,
costs and benefits, and outlines alternative development strategies.
The purpose of the systems design phase is to create a physical model
that will satisfy all documented requirements for the system. During the
systems design phase, you need to determine the（ ）, which
programmers will use to transform the logical design into program
modules and code. The deliverable for this phase is the（ ）, which is
presented to management and users for review and approval.
A.System logical modeling
B.use case modeling
C.requirements modeling
D.application modeling
A.systems planning phase
B.systems modeling phase
C.systems analysis phase
D.systems design phase
A.system charter
B.system scope definition
C.system blueprint
D.system requirement document
A.application architecture
B.system data model
C.system process model
D.implement environment
A.system architecture description
B.system design specification
C.system technique architecture
D.physical deployment architecture
试题分析
系统分析阶段的目的是建立新系统的逻辑模型。 第一步是_____，调查业务流程
并记录新系统必须做哪些以满足用户需求。 这一步继续在____开始的调查。 你
可以使用事实调查结果构建业务模型，数据和流程模型以及对象模型。 系统分
析阶段的可交付成果是____，它描述了管理和用户要求，成本和收益，并概述了
替代发展策略。
系统设计阶段的目的是创建一个能够满足系统所有文件化要求的物理模型。 在
系统设计阶段，你需要确定_____，哪些程序员将把逻辑设计转换为程序模块和
代码。 该阶段的可交付成果是____，提交给管理层和用户审查和批准。
A、System logical modeling 系统逻辑建模
B、use case modeling 用例建模
C、requirements modeling 需求建模
D、application modeling 应用建模
A、systems planning phase 系统规划阶段
B、systems modeling phase 系统建模阶段
C、systems analysis phase 系统分析阶段
D、systems design phase 系统设计阶段
A、system charter 系统章程
B、system scope definition 系统范围定义
C、system blueprint 系统蓝图
D、system requirement document 系统要求文件
A application architecture 应用架构
B system data model 系统数据模型
C system process model 系统过程模型
D implement environment 实施环境
A、system architecture description 系统架构描述
B、system design specification 系统设计规范
C、system technique architecture 系统技术架构
D、physical deployment architecture 物理部署架构
试题答案
（71）B（72）A（73）B（74）C（75）B
试题 2(2016 年上半年试题 71-75)
A variety of tools is available to help the analyst to discover the users'
true needs. These tools are grouped into three broad techniques that
are based on the degree of change anticipated in the to-be system -
Business process（ ）is used when the basic business Requirements
outlined in the system request focus on employing computer
technology in some aspect of the business process. Two popular
activities used in the technique are（ ）. Business process（ ）means
that the basic business requirements target moderate changes to the
organization' s operations. （ ）are three popular activities in the
technique. Business process（ ）means changing the current way of
doing business and making major changes to take advantage of new
ideas and new technology.A.automation
B.modeling
C.improvement
D.reengineering
A.duration analysis and outcome analysis
B.problem analysis and root cause analysis
C.technology analysis and activity elimination
D.activity-based costing and informal benchmarking
A.automation
B.modeling
C.improvement
D.reengineering
A.Duration analysis, activity-based costing and informal benchmarking
B.Outcome analysis, technology analysis and activity elimination
C.Problem analysis, root cause analysis and critical path analysis
D.Cost-benefit analysis, schedule analysis and risk analysis
A.automation
B.modeling
C.improvement
D.reengineering
试题分析
译文：
多种工具用来帮助分析人员发现用户的真实需求，这些工具按照目标系统设想的
变化程度可以分为三类广义技术。当系统需求中描述的基本业务需求关注于将计
算机技术运用于业务流程的某些方面时，使用业务流程自动化，该技术中使用的
两种流行活动是问题分析和因果分析。业务流程改进意味着基本业务需求目标会
让组织的运作有适度改变，持续期分析、作业成本方法和非正式基准是该技术中
流行的三项活动。业务流程再造意味着要改变当前执行业务的方式和为了采用新
理念和新技术的优势而进行重大改变。
试题答案
（71）A（72）B（73）C（74）A（75）D
试题 3(2015 年上半年试题 71-75)
A requirement is simply a statement of what the system must do or
what characteristics it needs to have. Requirements evolve from broad
statements of overall（ ）from the system to detailed statements of the
business capabilities that a system should support to detailed technical
statements of the way in which the capabilities will be implemented in
the new system. （ ）focus on describing how to create the software
product that will be produced from the project Nonfunctional
requirements are primarily used in the design phase when decisions are
made about the user interface, the hardware and software, and the
system's underlying architecture. The system's physical and technical
environments would be considered （ ）. The speed, capacity, and
reliability of the system belong to（ ）. （ ）describes that who has
authorized access to the system under what circumstances.A.business
needs
B.operation processes
C.technical specification
D.function components
A.User requirements
B.Business requirements
C.Function requirements
D.System requirements
A.a functional requirement
B.a technical requirement
C.an operational requirement
D.a service requirenient
A.security requirement
B.performance requirement
C.technical requirement
D.information requirement
A.System constraint
B.Cultural requirement
C.Control requirement
D.Security requirement
试题分析
需求只是陈述了系统必须做什么或者系统需要有什么特性。需求来自于从系统总
体业务需要的广泛陈述到系统所支持业务能力的详细陈述，再到新系统能力实现
中所采用方法的详细技术陈述。功能性需求致力于描述如何创建将在项目中产生
的软件产品。非功能性需求主要在设计阶段中做出关于用户界面、硬件和软件，
以及系统底层架构的决策时使用。系统的物理和技术环境将被看作一种操作需求。
系统的速度、能力和可靠性属于性能需求。安全性需求描述了谁在什么情况下具
有访问系统的权限。
试题答案
（71）A（72）D（73）C（74）B（75）D
试题 4(2014 年上半年试题 71-75)
A requirement is simply a statement of what the system must do or
what characteristics it needs to have. Requirements written from the
perspective of user and focus on user needs are called（ ）.
Requirements written from the developer's perspective and describe
how the system will be implemented are called（ ）. Requirements
evolve from detailed statemens of business capabilities that a system
should have to detailed statements of the technical way in which the
capabilities will be implemented in the new system. Requirements can
be either functional or nofunctional in nature. For example, during the
analysis phase of travel vehicles sales system, the system that must have
the ability to search for available inventory is（ ）. The requirement
that the system should be able to work on any Web browser belongs to
（ ）. That customer personal information is protected in compliance
with the Data Protection Act is a requirement of（ ）.
A.operational requirements
B.business requirements
C.technical requirements
D.system requirements
A.operational requirements
B.business requirements
C.technical requirements
D.system requirements
A.a functional requirements
B.a technical requirements
C.an operational requirements
D.a service requirements
A.functional requirements
B.technical requirements
C.operational requirements
D.information requirements
A.system constraint
B.system performance
C.secrity and control
D.cultural and political
试题分析
简单说需求就是关于系统必须做什么或需要有哪些特点的陈述。从用户角度所撰
写的需求主要关注用户的需要，称为业务需要。从开发者角度所撰写的需求主要
描述系统如何被实现，称为系统需求。需求从一个系统应有业务功能的详细陈述
演变到新系统中实现这些功能中所采用技术途径的详细陈述。需求本身可以是功
能性或非功能性的。例如，在旅行车销售系统的分析阶段，系统必须能够搜索现
有的库存是一种功能性需求。系统应该能够适应任何Web浏览器的需求属于操
作需求。客户个人信息应依照Data Protection Act予以保护则是文化和政治方
面的需求。
试题答案
（71）B（72）D（73）A（74）C（75）D
试题 5(2013 年上半年试题 71-75)
Feasibility should be measured throughout the life cycle of system
development. The scope and complexity of an apparently feasible
project can change after the initial problems and opportunities are fully
analyzed of after the system has been designed. Thus,a project that is
feasible at one point may become infeasible later . The first feasibility
analysis is conducted during the（ ）. The（ ）represents a major
feasibility analysis activity since it charts one of many possible
implementations as the target for systems design. （ ）is a measure of
how well the solution will work in the organization. It is also a measure
of how people feel about the system. When it is determined in the later
stages of the system life cycle,（ ）is often performed with a working
prototype of the proposed system. This is a test of the system's user
interfaces and is measured in how easy they are to learn and to use and
how they support the desired productivity levels of the users. Economic
feasibility has been defined as a cost-benefit analysis.The（ ）technique
is a simple and popular method for determining if and when an
investment will pay for itself.
A.problem analysis phase
B.preliminary investigation phase
C.requirements analysis phase
D.decision analysis phase
A.problem analysis phase
B.preliminary investigation phase
C.requirements analysis phase
D.decision analysis phase
A.Operational feasibility
B.Technical feasibility
C.Schedule feasibility
D.Economic feasibility
A.performance analysis
B.control analysis
C.usability analysis
D.interface analysis
A.payback analysis
B.return-on-investment analysis
C.present value
D.time value of money
试题分析
可行性的判定贯穿于系统开发的生命周期。一个明显可行的项目，在全面分析了
初始问题和机会或系统设计后，其范围和复杂性会发生变化。因此某一时刻可行
的项目在此后可能会变得不可行。第一次可行性分析在初始调研阶段进行。由于
要绘制多个可能的实现方案之一作为系统设计的目标，决策分析阶段表示一个主
要的可行性分析活动。操作可行性是对解决方案在企业中工作效果的度量，它也
是衡量人们对于系统的感受。当它在系统生命周期后面的阶段被确定后，经常会
用一个建议系统的工作原型进行可用性分析。这是对系统用户界面的一种测试，
它通过系统如何易于学习和使用及系统如何支持用户所期望的生产力水平进行
衡量。偿还分析技术是一种简单流行的方法用于确定是否及何时将收回成本。
试题答案
（71）B（72）D（73）A（74）C（75）A
试题 6(2012 年上半年试题 71-75)
The traditional model for systems development was that an IT
department used（ ）which is a process-centered technique， and
consulted users only when their input or approval was
needed．Compared with traditional methods， many companies find
that JAD allows key users to participate effectively in the（ ）.When
properly used， JAD can result in a more accurate statement of system
requirements， a better understanding of common goals， and a
stronger commitment to the success of the new system．RAD is a
team-based technique that speeds up information systems
development and produces a functioning information system．While the
end product of JAD is a(an)（ ）， the end product of RAD is the
（ ）.The RAD model consists of four phases．During the（ ）， users
interact with systems analysts and develop models and prototypes that
represent all system processes， outputs， and inputs．
A.structured analysis
B.object-oriented analysis
C.prototype analysis
D.process analysis
A.initial scope definition
B.requirements modeling process
C.object modeling process
D.architecture design process
A.data flow diagram
B.entity relationship model
C.requirements model
D.object model
A.system proposal
B.system design model
C.new system architecture
D.new information system
A.requirements planning phase
B.user design phase
C.construction phase
D.cutover phase
试题分析
系统开发的传统模式是IT部门使用一种以过程为中心的结构化分析技术，只有
当需要用户输入或认可的时候才与用户讨论。与传统方法相比，许多公司发现
JAD能让主要用户有效地参与到需求建模过程中。如果使用得当，JAD能够产
生更为准确的系统需求陈述，更好地理解共同目标和对于新系统取得成功更强有
力的承诺。RAD是一种团队开发技术能够加快信息系统的开发并生产出正常运
作的信息系统。JAD的最终产品是一个需求模型，而RAD的最终产品是新的信
息系统。RAD模型包括四个阶段。在用户设计阶段，用户与系统分析员交互，
开发模型和原型以表示系统所有的加工、输出和输入。
试题答案
（71）A（72）B（73）C（74）D（75）B
试题 7(2011 年上半年试题 71-75)
The analysis phase answers the questions of who will use the system，
what the system will do， and where and when it will be used. During
this phase， the project team investigates any current system，
identifies（ ）， and develops a concept for the new system. This
phase has three steps: first，（ ）is developed to guide the project team’
s efforts. It usually includes an analysis of the current system and its
problems， and the ways to design a new system. The next step is
（ ）. The analysis of this information - in conjunction with input from
the project sponsor and many other people - leads to the development
of a concept for a new system. The system concept is then used as a
basis to develop a set of business analysis models that describes how
the business will operate if the new system were developed. The set of
models typically includes models that represent the（ ）necessary to
support the underlying business process. Last， the analyses， system
concepts， and models are combined into a document called the（ ），
which is presented to the project sponsor and other key decision
makers that decide whether the project should continue to move
forward.
A.improvement opportunities
B.logical model
C.system requirements
D.system architecture
A.a user manual
B.an analysis strategy
C.an analysis use case
D.a design user case
A.project scope definition
B.problems analysis
C.decision analysis
D.requirements gathering
A.data and processes
B.system infrastructures
C.external agents
D.system software
A.requirements statement
B.design specification
C.system proposal
D.project charter
试题分析
分析阶段回答谁将使用该系统、系统能做什么及系统在何时何地使用的问题。在
该阶段，项目组调研当前系统、识别改进机会并开发出一个新系统的概念。这个
阶段分为三个步骤：首先，开发一个分析策略来指导项目组工作。这些分析策略
通常包括了当前系统及其问题的分析和设计新系统的方法。下一步是需求收集。
对这些信息（汇同系统发起人和很多其他人员的输入）的分析会导致开发出一个
新系统的概念。系统概念作为开发一组业务分析模型的基础，这些模型描述了新
系统开发完成后企业如何运作。这组模型通常包含那些表示数据和过程的模型，
这些数据和过程是支持底层业务过程所必需的。最后，这些分析、系统概念和模
型合并到一个称为系统建议书的文档中，将被提交给项目组发起人和其他决定项
目是否继续执行的主要决策人员。
试题答案
（71）A（72）B（73）D（74）A（75）C
试题 8(2010 年上半年试题 71-75)
System analysis is traditionally done top-down using structured analysis
based on（ ）. Object-oriented analysis focuses on creation of models.
The three types of theanalysis model are（ ）. There are two substages
of object-oriented analysis.（ ）focuses on real-world things whose
semantics the application captures. The object constructedin the
requirement analysis shows the（ ）of the real-world system and
organizes it intoworkable pieces.（ ）addresses the computer aspects
of the application that are visible tousers. The objects are those which
can be expected to vary from time to time quite rapidly.
A.functional decomposition
B.object abstraction
C.data inheritance
D.information generalization
A.function model，class model and state model
B.class model，interaction model and state model
C.class model，interaction model and sequence model
D.function model，interaction model and state model
A.Static analysis
B.Semantic analysis
C.Scope analysis
D.Domain analysis
A.static structure
B.system components
C.data flows
D.program procedures
A.Program analysis
B.Function requirement
C.Application analysis
D.Physical model
试题分析
传统的系统分析以功能分解为基础，利用结构化分析自顶向下完成。面向对象分
析关注于模型的创建。该分析模型有三种类型：类模型、交互模型和状态模型。
面向对象分析有两个子阶段。领域分析侧重于现实世界中那些语义被应用程序获
取的事物。在需求分析中所构造的对象说明了现实世界系统的静态结构并将其组
织为可用的片段。应用分析处理应用系统中用户可见的计算机问题。所分析的对
象可能会被预计时不时地发生较快的变化。
试题答案
（71）A（72）B（73）D（74）A（75）C